---
title: "Ban List Update"
layout: post
---

Since the 22 January 2019, no Tiny Leaders Reborn ban list and rules update announcements were made, and we apologize for it.

We want to reassure you on the return of Tiny Leaders Reborn, stronger than ever, and we have big announcements for you.

<h4>
    <li>Deflecting swat is banned</li>
    <li>Fierce guardianship is banned</li>
    <li>Mox amber is banned</li>
    <li>Mox opal is banned</li>
    <li>Lion's eye diamond is banned</li>
    <li>Maddening hex is banned</li>
    <li>Court of cunning is banned</li>
</h4>




### Deflecting swat/Fierce guardianship

The use of these free cards, allowing very simple protection of the general or the game plan, proved too oppressive for the format.  

These two cards were found to be integrated into almost all the decks playing these two colors, offering a determining free effect, under a condition extremely easy to obtain in this format.  
The existence of these cards only reinforced the power of combo decks like Emry, Lurker of the Loch.


### Mox amber, Mox opal et Lion's eye diamond

On 02/26/2018, we had banned diamond and chrome moxes, believing that fast and free mana were harmful to the format.  

Since then, mox amber has been edited, fitting into a large majority of decks and making, among other things, any 1 mana general virtually free.  
Additionally, as new strategies emerged, such as Emry decks, or those exploiting Underworld Breach, access to these free artifacts proved their dominance over the format.  


### Maddening hex

Maddening hex is a particularly aggressive red card created for the multiplayer EDH format.

The card is extremely oppressive, inflicting an average of 3.5 damage with each activation (determined at random).
In addition, its enchantment status means that there are only few answers and makes a free triggers ability in a majority of cases.
The massive impact that the card produces, in an already aggressive color, makes the card too powerful to stay in the format


### Court of cunning

Court of cunning is a special card whose mechanics can backfire on its owner. However, this counterpart is easily circumvented by the strategies in which the card is played : grinding, fast strategies, in which the card will participate in the victory in all cases, or blue control strategies that can easily ensure to keep the monarch. , because often accompanied by color with a large number of (mass) removal.

If Court of Cunning is not handled quickly, the game will be easily won by its owner.